The third thing that we can do to improve
our LCP is to reduce the overhead.
So if we've in our
hypothetical example here,
we minimized all the requests that we need
to focus on just the CSS that we render,
and just the images that are above
the fold and visible to the user.
But is there anything that we can do
to make these requests go faster?
Yes, yes there is.
Let's look at what a request is.
So when one of these requests happen.
At the beginning, if it's a new origin, if
we're not loading it from the same place
as our document, we might have to do a DNS
look up, say where is this image from?
And then we'll have to establish
a TCP connection to them and
an SSL hand shake for security, and then
we make the request, and the response and
then process it.
If we had a second image that's
also on the same domain,
we'd have to do all of that stuff again.
We might not have to make
a second DNS lookup, but
we have to do all of those same things.
Well, that's a lot of redundancy.
How do we do fewer things?
One of the best ways to do fewer things
is to implement a protocol called HTTP/2.
This is supported on most web servers,
but not all.
Unfortunately ExpressGS does
not support HTTP/2 yet, but
if you're using EngineX or Apache,
they're really easy to turn on.
One of the many benefits of HTTP/2
is that you can reuse connections.
As in, if I'm making multiple
requests to your web server,
I don't have to do a TCP connection and
an SSL handshake every single time.
I can do it once and ask for
all of the documents together.
And so
I've cut out a big part of that overhead.
Unfortunately, you can't always use
HTTP/2 practically because even
though it's way faster in terms of
actually pushing the bytes over the wire.
And you can reuse those connections,
there's some cons as well as then
not all servers work with it yet.
Not all connections.
It's really hard to get node up and
running with it.
And so if you're doing like
a local dev server like I am,
you might not be able to run it locally.
The other thing that really makes it
hard to run locally is that you have to
use SSL.
You cannot have an unencrypted,
HTTP/2 connection.
As many of you I imagine can a test
it is kind of a pain in the butt,
to have a local selling certificate and
go through that set of hoops every
time you want to do Dev work.
Locally signed SSL is still,
even in 2021, kind of a pain in the butt.
All right, what other ways can
we use to reduce overhead?
Well, we can cache it.
What if we didn't have to
make any of those things,
we could just take an image and
process it.
We didn't have to request it.
We didn't have to respond to it,
because the browser already had it.
This would be fantastic but
you can only do it on secondary requests.
Really.
So, when you're serving an image or
a JavaScript file or an HTML document,
any of those requests can be
decorated with several headers that
tell the browser how long do you
wanna keep this document,
this image, this JavaScript file.
These headers are cache-control,
expires an etag, and
they're all necessary for
different things.
Cache control tells you, how long should
you hold on to this file in seconds.
So this is saying, hey, for
five minutes, this is the image,
you don't need to ask for
it again you're good to go.
If you want to be very explicit about
it expires tells you exactly when this
image expires and
do not keep it after that.
And to help it further, you can return
a hashed version of the object that says,
hi, if you ask for it again,
and it says the same tag,
I'm just going to tell you to
use the thing you already have.
All three of these headers are options
that are easily turned on that you
can easily turn on in most platforms you
don't have to like figure any of this
stuff out for yourself.
You look at the platform,
and the framework and
the technologies that you're using and
look up caching headers, and
there should be easy ways to
configure all of these options.
And these have huge benefits to
performance huge benefits, but
only for returning users,
which is important to know.
The first time a user hits your page,
the first impression they get,
nothing is cached.
They're gonna have to pay that price for
everything.
And so you don't want the first
impression to be that your site is slow.
So everything else needs
to be fast as well.
All right, there's a third way
that we can reduce overhead.
And that's what preload.
In the case of our CSS files, we have
one CSS file that then needs to ask for
some fonts, which is super common a lot
of sites use like Google fonts, or
you have your own fonts to pull down.
You could also have a CSS that imports and
other CSS.
Well, we know that we need these
things like it's in our CSS file,
like we know that we
need to get this asset.
What if we could tell the browser,
hi, go get this thing right away.
Don't wait for
you to parse all the way through it.
I'm telling you right now
you're gonna need it go get it.
We can do that.
When we do that, we can pull that forward
and start that request right away.
And we can do that with something
called a preconnect request.
So because the site uses Google fonts,
I know that we're going to need
to connect to fonts.gstatic.com.
I don't necessarily know what file you're
gonna want because Google's can change
some things, but
I know you're going to want to talk to it.
And so go ahead and
do your like connection setup
your DNS lookup right now.
For other things like maybe
I have an import of another
CSS file I know exactly what file
you need and I can do a pre load.
This is go ahead and fetch the file.
Something downstream is
going to need it and
I want you to get started
downloading it early.
We can use these things
to decorate our page and
get started sooner on what we need to do.
By doing this, we can further shrink
the difference between first contentful
paint and largest contentful paint by
smashing down that time we're waiting for
all the fonts to come down.
So let's go ahead and add preload and
preconnect to our setup.
So let's figure out what
we need to preload.
So if we go over to our Network tab and
show everything,
we can see here's all the things
that need to come down.
As we go down here we can see fonts,
here's the fonts that are coming down and
the fonts are coming down
from fonts.gstatic.com.
So we know we're going to
need to connect to that.
So if we go back to our HTML document,
now we go in the head,
because we know we wanna get
this thing started right away.
Let's add some links.
So we're gonna have a link.
This is going to be a pre-connect, we want
to go ahead and connect to this resource.
Let's connect to
https://fonts.gstatic.com.
We also are going to be connecting to, as
part of pulling down our website, we have
this little chat widget over here, which
is connecting from a different origin.
In my case, it's just a different port
running it's local host Port 3001.
But I know we're gonna connect there.
So we can go ahead and add that too.
So we're gonna pre connect
to http://localhost:3001.
And there's even a CSS file that
we have that is being chained.
Because Main, we can see in this little
waterfall chart here on the right,
the main CSS file is then loading
the fontello CSS file and
the banner CSS file and
the index CSS file.
So we can just tell it to go ahead and
preload it.
Index.CSS
fontello.css, banner.css actually
I think fontelo is a battery
So all together we added these five
annotations to the top of our index.
We said that we want you to go ahead and
establish a connection to fonts.g static
and local host 3001 cuz you're
gonna need these connections later.
And go ahead and
download these other things because we
know you're gonna want to connect to them,
or we know you're going to download
them as part of your process.
And so the browser can get
started on these requests sooner.
So we can save that.
All those things together.
We have crunched the amount
of things that we've done.
And made the smallest possible critical
path between first contentful paint and
largest contentful paint,
we're gonna take.